<sect1 id="mouse-behav">
<sect1info>

<authorgroup>
<author>
<firstname>Mike</firstname>
<surname>McBride</surname>
</author>
</authorgroup>

<date>06/02/2001</date>
<releaseinfo>1.00.00</releaseinfo>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>KControl</keyword>
<keyword>mouse</keyword>
</keywordset>
</sect1info>

<title>Mouse Behavior</title>

<para>This module is designed to help you control exactly what happens to
windows when a mouse is clicked on them.  </para>

<para>Because of the design of this panel, you can fine tune the mouse clicks,
so that KDE does what you want when you want it to.</para>

<sect2 id="mouse-behav-use">
<title>Use</title>

<para>This panel is divided into 4 sections.</para>

<sect3 id="mouse-behav-sec1">
<title><guilabel>Titlebar Doubleclick</guilabel></title>

<para>This section provides a single dropdown box.  You can select either
"Shade", or "Maximize".</para>

<para>Selecting "Maximise", causes KDE to maximise the window whenever you
doubleclick on the titlebar.  "Shade", on the other hand, causes the window to
be reduced to simply the titlebar.  Doublclicking on the titlebar again,
restores the window to its normal size.</para>

</sect3>

<sect3 id="mouse-behav-sec2">
<title><guilabel>Titlebar and Frame</guilabel></title>

<para>This section, allows you to determine what happens when you single click
on the titlebar or frame of a window.  Notice that you can have different
actions associated with the same click depending on whether the window is active
or not.</para>

<para>For each combination of mousebuttons and Active/Inactive, you can select
the most appropriate choice.  The actions are as follows:</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term>Activate</term>
<listitem><para>Make this window active.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term>Lower</term>
<listitem><para>Will move this window to the bottom of the display.  This will
get the window out of the way.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term>Nothing</term>
<listitem><para>Just like it says.  Nothing happens.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term>Operations Menu</term>
<listitem><para>Will bring up a small submenu, where you can choose window
related commands (<abbrev>ie</abbrev> Maximize, Minimize, Close,
<abbrev>etc</abbrev>).</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term>Raise</term>
<listitem><para>Will bring the window to the top of the display.  All other
windows which overlap with this one, will be hidden "below"
it.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term>Toggle Raise and Lower</term>
<listitem><para>This will raise windows which are not on top, and lower windows
which are already on top.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</sect3>

<sect3 id="mouse-behav-sec3">
<title><guilabel>Inactive Inner Window</guilabel></title>

<para>This part of the module, allows you to configure what happens when you
click on an inactive window, with any of the three mouse buttons.</para>

<para>Your choices are as follows:</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term>Activate, Raise and pass click.</term>
<listitem><para>This makes the clicked window active, raises it to the top of
the display, and passes a mouse click to the application within the
window.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term>Activate and pass click</term>
<listitem><para>This makes the clicked window active and passes a mouse click to
the application within the window.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term>Activate</term>
<listitem><para>This simply makes the clicked window active.  The mouse click is
not passed on to the application within the window.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term>Activate and Raise</term>
<listitem><para>This makes the clicked window active and raises the window to
the top of the display.  The mouse click is not passed on to the application
within the window.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

</sect3>

<sect3 id="mouse-behav-sec4">
<title><guilabel>Inner Window with Modifier Key</guilabel></title>

<para>This bottom section, allows you to configure additional actions, when the
<keycode>Alt</keycode> key is pressed, and a mouse click is made on a
window. </para>

<para>Once again, you can select different actions for
<mousebutton>Left</mousebutton>, <mousebutton>Middle</mousebutton> and
<mousebutton>Right</mousebutton> button clicks.</para>

<para>Your choices are:</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term>Lower</term>
<listitem><para>Will move this window to the bottom of the display.  This will
get the window out of the way.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term>Move</term>
<listitem><para>Allows you to drag the selected window around the
desktop.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term>Nothing</term>
<listitem><para>Just like it says.  Nothing happens.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term>Raise</term>
<listitem><para>Will bring the window to the top of the display.  All other
windows which overlap with this one, will be hidden "below"
it.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term>Resize</term>
<listitem><para>Allows you to change the size of the selected
window.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term>Toggle Raise and Lower</term>
<listitem><para>This will raise windows which are not on top, and lower windows
which are already on top.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

</sect3>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="mouse-behav-author">
<title>Section Author</title>

<para>This section written by Mike McBride <email>mpmcbride7@yahoo.com</email>
</para>

</sect2>
</sect1>
