<chapter id="kcmkeys" lang="en">
<docinfo>
<authorgroup>
<author>
<firstname>Duncan</firstname>
</author>

<corpauthor>KDE skupina</corpauthor>

<othercredit role="translator"><contrib>Prevod:</contrib>
<firstname>Matej</firstname>
<surname>Badalič</surname>
<affiliation><address><email>matej_badalic@slo.net</email></address></affiliation>
</othercredit>

</authorgroup>
<date>19/08/1999</date>
<releaseinfo>1.02.00</releaseinfo>
<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>KControl</keyword>
<keyword>Keys</keyword>
</keywordset>
</docinfo>
<title>KDE Control Center - Keys</title>

<sect1 id="kcmkeys-configuration-of-key-bindings">
<title>Configuration of Key Bindings ("Shortcut keys").</title>

<para>This  screen configures either the <emphasis remap="bf">Global</emphasis>
or <emphasis remap="bf">Standard</emphasis>  shortcut keys
("<emphasis remap="bf"> Key Bindings</emphasis>"), depending on how you invoked it.</para>

<para>(A "<emphasis remap="it">Key binding</emphasis>" programs
a special key, or combination of keys, as a <emphasis remap="bf">shortcut</emphasis>
to initiate an action by an application.)</para>

<para>The "<emphasis remap="bf">Standard shortcut keys</emphasis>" are common to many KDE
applications; the <emphasis remap="bf">Global shortcuts</emphasis> are associated
with actions by  particular KDE applications, such as the
KDE <emphasis remap="bf">Window Manager</emphasis> (<literal remap="tt">kwm</literal>).</para>

<para>The key bindings are stored in a  "<emphasis remap="bf">Key Scheme</emphasis>", which
may either be the unmodifiable <emphasis remap="bf">KDE default</emphasis> key scheme,
or one of the personal key schemes customized by the user.</para>

<para><itemizedlist>
<listitem>
<para> <emphasis remap="bf">Selecting a Key scheme.</emphasis>
Click on an entry in the <emphasis remap="it">Key scheme list box</emphasis> in the
top left of the screen, and the corresponding
key bindings will displayed in the <emphasis remap="it">Action list box</emphasis> in the
center of the screen.
</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>The <emphasis remap="bf">Current Scheme</emphasis> is not a
true Key scheme: select it to display the key bindings
you are currently using.
</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para> <emphasis remap="bf">Creating a new Key scheme.</emphasis>
To create a new Key scheme, click on <emphasis remap="bf">Add</emphasis>, and enter the name
you choose for it in the dialog box that appears.   Its initial key
bindings will be those displayed in the Action list box immediately before
the new scheme is created.
</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para> <emphasis remap="bf">Deleting a Key scheme.</emphasis>
Click on <emphasis remap="bf">Remove</emphasis> to delete a Key scheme.
</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para> <emphasis remap="bf">Making changes to the selected Key scheme.</emphasis>
To change a particular key binding, click on the corresponding
action to highlight it; using the buttons
below the Action list box, the following changes can be made:
<itemizedlist>
<listitem>
<para> Press "<emphasis remap="bf">No key</emphasis>" to remove the key binding.
 </para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para> Press "<emphasis remap="bf">Default key</emphasis>" to select the KDE default key binding.
(This button will only be enabled
if there is a KDE default key binding for this action.)
</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para> Press "<emphasis remap="bf">Custom key</emphasis>" to use your own choice
of key binding.  Your chosen key may be combined with one or
more of the <emphasis remap="bf">SHIFT</emphasis>, <emphasis remap="bf">CTRL</emphasis>, or <emphasis remap="bf">ALT</emphasis>
shift keys, by pressing the corresponding button.  Click on the
representation of a key in the lower right of the screen to
activate it, and type the desired key on your keyboard.  If
the key binding you select is invalid, or is in conflict with another
key binding, you will be warned, and the change will not
be made.</para>
</listitem>
</itemizedlist>

</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para> <emphasis remap="bf">Saving changes to the selected Key scheme.</emphasis>
After you have made changes to the selected Key binding scheme,
the "<emphasis remap="bf">Save changes</emphasis>" button will become enabled,
Click on this button to save your changes; the
button will again be disabled until any new changes are made.
If you select a different Key scheme before saving your changes,
they will be lost.
</para>
</listitem>
</itemizedlist>

Note that the
"Current" and "KDE default" Key schemes cannot be removed, and changes
to them cannot be saved.  You can however make changes while
these keys schemes are selected, and apply them, or create a
new key scheme with them.</para>

<para>Click on <emphasis remap="bf">Apply</emphasis> at the bottom of the screen to make the
selected Key scheme the currently used scheme. </para>

<para>Click on <emphasis remap="bf">OK</emphasis>
to do this and also close the key binding configuration window.</para>

<para>Click on <emphasis remap="bf">Default</emphasis> to restore all the default KDE standard
shortcut key bindings.</para>

<para>Click on <emphasis remap="bf">Cancel</emphasis> to
close the key binding configuration window with no further changes.</para>

</sect1>
</chapter>