<sect1 id="borders">
<sect1info>

<authorgroup>
<author>
<firstname>Mike</firstname>
<surname>McBride</surname>
</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<date>2000-11-23</date>
<releaseinfo>1.00.00</releaseinfo>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>KControl</keyword>
<keyword>borders</keyword>
</keywordset>
</sect1info>

<title>Borders</title>

<para>This module is used to control "active borders" and "magic
borders".</para>

<sect2 id="borders-use">
<title>Use</title>

<para>This module is divided into 2 sections:  <link
linkend="active-borders">Active desktop borders</link> and <link
linkend="magic-borders">Magic borders</link>.</para>

<sect3 id="active-borders">
<title>Active Desktop Borders</title>
<note><para>The features within the active borders section of KDE are not
currently useable.</para></note>
<!--<para>Active desktop borders, is a feature of KDE, which allows you to switch
between desktops by simply sliding the mouse pointer to the edge of the desktop.
After a certain, user selectable, delay KDE will automatically change to the
neighboring desktop.</para>

<para>The active desktop borders section of the module consists of three
options:</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Enable active desktop borders</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>If this option is enabled, when you move your mouse over to the
edge of a desktop, and hold it there for a specified period of time, KDE will
automatically switch you to the desktop that neighbors that
edge.</para>
<para>This allows you to slide drag windows between desktops.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>Move pointer towards center after switch</term>
<listitem><para>If this option is enabled, and you switch desktops using the
active desktop borders, the mouse cursor will automatically be moved to the
center of the next desktop.  If this option is disabled, the mouse will be
located at the corresponding edge of the new desktop.</para>
<tip><para>This option prevents you from unintentionally switching back and
forth between desktops when you are on the edge).</para></tip></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Desktop switch delay</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>Adjust this option to determine the delay (the amount of time
the mouse must stay at the desktop border) before KDE switches
desktops.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>-->
</sect3>

<sect3 id="magic-borders">
<title>Magic Borders</title>
<para>Magic borders, is a feature of KDE to help keep your desktop neat.  The
idea behind magic borders, is to create an area around an object (either the
desktop or a window).  When another window is moved within this "magic borders
area", the window is automatically placed right next to the object (this can be
right next to another window, or at the edge of a desktop.</para>

<para>There are two slider bars in this section of the module.</para>

<para>The first slider bar is labeled "<guilabel>Border snap zone</guilabel>".
This is an area around the edge of the desktop.  You can use this slider bar to
adjust the width/height of the area.  Once a window is placed within this area
of the screen, it automatically snaps to the outside edge of the screen.</para>

<para>The second slider is labeled "<guilabel>Window snap zone</guilabel>".
This is an area around every window.  You can use this slider to adjust the
width of this "magic area".  Once another window enters this "magic area", it
automatically snaps to the edge of the original window.  This helps you set two
windows right next to each other.</para>

<tip><para>You may have noticed that you cannot disable magic borders.  If you
do not want to have one or both magic border effects on your desktop, simply set
the width of the "magic area" to zero.  This will effectivly disable the "magic
zone".</para></tip>

</sect3>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="borders-author">
<title>Section Author</title>

<para>This section written by Mike McBride <email>mpmcbride7@yahoo.com</email>
</para>

</sect2>
</sect1>

