<sect1 id="iconstyle">
<sect1info>

<authorgroup>
<author>
<firstname>Mike</firstname>
<surname>McBride</surname>
</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<date>2000-10-21</date>
<releaseinfo>1.00.00</releaseinfo>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>KControl</keyword>
<keyword>icons</keyword>
<keyword>style</keyword>
</keywordset>
</sect1info>
<title>Icon Style</title>
<para>This module allows you to load entire sets of icons all at once.  These icons are grouped in packages called styles.  Icon styles are a great way to spice up your desktop with a new theme.</para>
<para>KDE comes packaged with two icon styles:  KDE Hi-color and KDE Low-color.</para>
<sect2 id="iconstyle-use"><title>Use</title>
<para>To switch icon styles on the desktop, click the name of the icon style from the list provided.  Across the top of the window, a preview of those icons appears.  If this is the icon style you want to make permenant, press "Apply".</para>
<para>To add additional icon styles to the list, simply click on the folder icon at the bottom right of the screen.  This will let you browse through your filesystem until you find the new icon style.  Then click "OK" from the dialog box.  This returns you back to the module.  Now simply click on "Install New Theme", to add the icon style to your list.</para>
<para>To delete an icon style from the list, simply click on the name once.  Then click on "Remove Theme" and the theme will bee removed.  </para>
<note><para>You cannot remove any of the Icon styles supplied with KDE.</para></note>
<note><para>Removing the icon style from this list does not delete it from your hard drive.  It simply removes the entry from this list.  You must use the command line or konqueror to delete it.</para></note>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="iconstyle-author">
<title>Section Author</title>
<para>This section written by Mike McBride <email>mpmcbride7@yahoo.com</email> </para>
</sect2>
</sect1>

