<sect1 id="mouse-behav">
<sect1info>

<authorgroup>
<author>
<firstname>Mike</firstname>
<surname>McBride</surname>
</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<date>2001-04-16</date>
<releaseinfo>1.00.00</releaseinfo>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>KControl</keyword>
<keyword>mouse</keyword>
</keywordset>
</sect1info>

<title>Mouse Behavior</title>

<para>This module is designed to help you control exactly what happens to
a window when it receives a mouse click.</para>

<sect2 id="mouse-behav-use">
<title>Usage</title>

<para>This panel is divided into 4 sections:</para>

<sect3 id="mouse-behav-sec1">
<title><guilabel>Titlebar Doubleclick</guilabel></title>

<para> 
Here you define the behavior of a window when it's titlebar is
double-clicked.  The two possibilities are <guilabel>Shade</guilabel> and
<guilabel>Maximize</guilabel>.  
</para>

<para> 
Selecting <guilabel>Maximize</guilabel> indicates that the window's size
should be maximized.  <guilabel>Shade</guilabel>, on the other hand, causes the
window's contents to be hidden, leaving only the titlebar being
display. Doublclicking on the titlebar again restores the window to its normal
size.  
</para>

</sect3>

<sect3 id="mouse-behav-sec2">
<title><guilabel>Titlebar and Frame</guilabel></title>

<para>
This section allows you to determine what happens when you single click on the
titlebar or frame of a window.  Notice that you can have different actions
associated with the same click depending on whether the window is active or not.
</para>

<para>
For each combination of mousebuttons and active/inactive, you can select
the most appropriate choice.  The actions are as follows:
</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Activate</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>Make this window active.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Lower</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>Will move this window to the bottom of the display.  This will
get the window out of the way.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Nothing</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>Just like it says.  Nothing happens.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Operations Menu</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>Will bring up a small submenu, where you can choose window
related commands (ie Maximize, Minimize, Close,
etc.).</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Raise</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>Will bring the window to the top of the display.  All other
windows which overlap with this one, will be hidden <quote>beneath</quote>
it.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Toggle Raise and Lower</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>This will raise windows which are not on top, and lower windows
which are already on top.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</sect3>

<sect3 id="mouse-behav-sec3">
<title><guilabel>Inactive Inner Window</guilabel></title>

<para>This part of the module allows you to configure what happens when you
click on an inactive window with any of the three mouse buttons.</para>

<para>Your choices are as follows:</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Activate, raise and pass click</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>This makes the clicked window active, raises it to the top of
the display, and passes a mouse click to the application within the
window.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Activate and pass click</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>This makes the clicked window active and passes a mouse click to
the application within the window.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Activate</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>This simply makes the clicked window active.  The mouse click is
not passed on to the application within the window.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Activate and Raise</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>This makes the clicked window active and raises the window to
the top of the display.  The mouse click is not passed on to the application
within the window.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

</sect3>

<sect3 id="mouse-behav-sec4">
<title><guilabel>Inner Window, Titlebar and Frame</guilabel></title>

<para>This bottom section allows you to configure additional actions for when the
<keycap>Alt</keycap> key is pressed and a mouse click is made on a window.</para>

<para>Once again, you can select different actions for
<mousebutton>Left</mousebutton>, <mousebutton>Middle</mousebutton> and
<mousebutton>Right</mousebutton> button clicks.</para>

<para>Your choices are:</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Lower</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>Will move this window to the bottom of the display.  This will
get the window out of the way.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Move</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>Allows you to drag the selected window around the
desktop.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Nothing</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>Just like it says.  Nothing happens.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Raise</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>Will bring the window to the top of the display.  All other
windows which overlap with this one, will be hidden "beneath"
it.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Resize</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>Allows you to change the size of the selected
window.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Toggle Raise and Lower</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>This will raise windows which are not on top, and lower windows
which are already on top.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

</sect3>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="mouse-behav-author">
<title>Section Author</title>

<para>This section written by Mike McBride <email>mpmcbride7@yahoo.com</email>
</para>

</sect2>
</sect1>

