<sect1 id="color">
<sect1info>

<authorgroup>
<author
> <firstname
>Mike</firstname
> <surname
>McBride</surname
> </author>
<author
> <firstname
>Mark</firstname
> <surname
>Donohoe</surname
> </author>

<author
> <firstname
>Martin</firstname
> <surname
>Jones</surname
> </author>
<othercredit role="translator"
><firstname
>Dwayne</firstname
><surname
>Bailey</surname
><affiliation
><address
><email
>dwayne@translate.org.za</email
><address
></affiliation
><contrib
>Translation</contrib
></othercredit>
</authorgroup>

<date
>2001-07-22</date>
<releaseinfo
>2.20.00</releaseinfo>

<keywordset>
<keyword
>KDE</keyword>
<keyword
>KControl</keyword>
<keyword
>colour</keyword>
</keywordset>
</sect1info>

<title
>Colours</title>
<sect2 id="color-intro">
<title
>Introduction</title>

<para
>The Colour Selection module is comprised of 4 sections:</para>

<orderedlist
> <listitem
><para
><link linkend="kcmdisplay-preview"
>The colour scheme Preview</link
>.</para
></listitem
> <listitem
><para
><link linkend="kcmdisplay-widget-color"
>The current <guilabel
>Widget Colour</guilabel
></link
>.</para
> </listitem
> <listitem
><para
><link linkend="kcmdisplay-contrast"
>The contrast sliders</link
>.</para
></listitem
> <listitem
><para
><link linkend="kcmdisplay-color-schemes"
>The available Colour Schemes</link
>.</para
></listitem
> </orderedlist>

<note
><para
>A <emphasis
>Widget</emphasis
> is a commonly-used programmer's term for referring to User Interface elements such as buttons, menus, and scroll bars. You can think of them as the fundamental pieces that are assembled to make your application.</para
></note>

<sect3 id="kcmdisplay-preview">
<title
>Preview</title>

<para
>This section of the dialog demonstrates how a colour scheme applies to a sample selection of widgets. It provides you with a <guilabel
>preview</guilabel
> of your current colour choices.</para>

<para
>A colour scheme consists of a set of 18 colours. </para>

<para
>Each of the widgets is labled to help you identify how your changes will impact the colour scheme.</para>

</sect3>

<sect3 id="kcmdisplay-widget-color">
<title
><guilabel
>Widget Colour</guilabel
></title>

<para
>The currently selected member of the colour scheme is shown in the combo box. This widget colour can be changed by clicking on the coloured box below the combo box. A colour selection dialogue will then appear, from which you may select a new colour. When you are happy with your colour selection, press <guibutton
>Ok</guibutton
> in the colour selection dialogue. The colour will be updated in the Preview Area.</para>

<para
>You may select any member of the colour scheme from the colour combination box.</para>

</sect3>

<sect3 id="kcmdisplay-contrast">
<title
><guilabel
>Contrast</guilabel
> Slider</title>

<para
>The <guilabel
>Contrast</guilabel
> slider allows you to change the contrast between different shadings of the selected colours.</para>

<para
>The Preview area instantly updates to show the effect of your change.</para>

</sect3>

<sect3 id="kcmdisplay-color-schemes">
<title
><guilabel
>Colour schemes</guilabel
></title>

<para
>Various colour schemes are supplied with &kde;. These include:</para>
<simplelist
> <member
>&kde; default, </member
> <member
>Atlas green</member
> <member
>BeOS,</member
> <member
>Blue slate,</member
> <member
>CDE</member
> <member
>Dark Blue, </member
> <member
>Desert red,</member
> <member
>Digital CDE,</member
> <member
>Pale grey,</member
> <member
>Pumpkin,</member
> <member
>Solaris CDE,</member
> <member
>Storm,</member
> <member
>Redmond,</member
> <member
>System, </member
> <member
>Next, </member
> <member
>Point Reyes Green, </member
> <member
>Media Peach</member
> <member
>EveX</member
> <member
>and KDE 1.</member
> </simplelist>

<para
>To preview a scheme click on its name in the list box. </para>

<para
>You can use the &kde;-supplied Colour Schemes as a starting point to devise your own Scheme. Click on the <guibutton
>Add</guibutton
> button to store the colour scheme under a new name, then modify it. </para>

<para
>When such a user-created Colour Scheme is selected, changes to it (as shown in the Preview) can be saved with the <guibutton
>Save Changes</guibutton
> button; it can also be deleted with the <guibutton
>Remove</guibutton
> button.</para>

<note
><para
>The &kde;-supplied Schemes themselves cannot be changed or deleted.</para
></note>

</sect3>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="color-author">
<title
>Section Author</title>

<para
>This section written by Mark Donohoe and Martin Jones.</para>
<para
>Updated for KDE 2.0 by Mike McBride <email
>mpmcbride7@yahoo.com</email
></para>

<para
>Translation Dwayne Bailey<email
>dwayne@translate.org.za<email
></para>

</sect2>
</sect1>



